In the next lecture I'll be talking
about installing a Kubernetes cluster using kubeadm.
You only have to follow these lectures if you're
not using Kops or any other solution,
so these are just an alternative
of spinning up a Kubernetes cluster on bare metal
or on another cloud than AWS
that doesn't have a specific tool to build Kubernetes.
So, you are free to skip those lectures
if you already have a Kubernetes running.
Kubeadm is a toolkit by Kubernetes to create a cluster.
It works on any deb or rpm compatible Linux OS.
For example, Ubuntu, Debian, which use debian packages,
and Red Hat or CentOS, which use rpm packages.
This is the main advantage of kubeadm
because a lot of other tools
are operating system or cloud specific,
and kubeadm works on a lot of different environments.
You just need to have a compatible Linux OS
that has deb or rpm packages.
The tool itself is still in beta, we are now Q1 2018,
but it is expected to become stable somewhere this year.
It is very easy to use and lets you spin up
your Kubernetes cluster in just a couple of minutes.
Kubeadm supports bootstrap tokens.
Those are simple tokens that can be used
to create a cluster or to join nodes later on.
The tokens are of the format that is displayed here,
and we will use those tokens in the demos.
It will all become clear.
When we join a node to our cluster,
we'll be using those tokens to make sure
that the joining of the nodes is secure.
Kubeadm supports also upgrading
and downgrading of the clusters.
It does not install a networking solution.
You will have to install
a Container Network Interface-compliant network solution
yourself using kubectl apply as I will show you in the demo.
So, kubeadm doesn't come with a network solution,
but there are many network solutions available.
So, you can just plug those in.
It's called a CNI, Container Network Interface.
Prerequisites.
You need to have a debian package
or rpm package compatible system.
Two gigabyte of memory you should have.
Two CPUs for the master nodes are recommended.
Network connectivity between the nodes.
Otherwise it will not work.
It can be a private network using internal IP addresses
or even public routable internet IP addresses.
In this case, it's best to use a firewall
to only allow access within the cluster and to the users.
So, sometimes depending where you deploy the cluster on,
you might even only have a public IP address,
and you just have to make sure that you shield the access
away from other users on the internet.
If you deploy on Prime, it's probably going to be
a private network using internal IP addresses.
And typically, you need minimal two nodes,
one master node and one node to schedule pods on.
By default, you shouldn't be running your pods
on the master, but if you only have one node,
you can still configure Kubernetes
in a way that you accept launching pods on the master node
so that you only need one node.
But typically, we're going to use a minimum of two.
Next, there will be a demo,
and in the demo I will use DigitalOcean
to spin up droplets, which are VMs.
DigitalOcean is a good choice I think
because it's not as expensive as the other cloud providers.
And I'm also not going to use any cloud specific features
so that it doesn't really matter
whether you run it on DigitalOcean,
or on Prime, or on another provider
that provides you with VMs or bare metal boxes.
You can get $10 worth of credits
if you use the following link to sign up with DigitalOcean.
So, here is the link, and if you sign up using this link,
then you will have $10 that you can use to do this course.
A two gigabyte memory droplet currently
costs $10 a month on DigitalOcean,
but it is billed per hour.
So, you can run, for instance,
two times two gigabyte RAM droplets for half a month
or even four droplets that have two gigabytes of memory
for a bit more than a week.
So, depending on how long you're gonna run it,
you can then run more of them or less of them
until you reach $10.
And then, after this $10,
you'll have to pay for your compute.
So, will be the demo.